A small seaside town in the south of Russia. This is the location where at the start of the 21st
century a war has been declared on non-conformity. The criminal case has been initiated against
17 individuals who professed the religion of Jehovah's Witnesses. It all began back in 2009 when a
local court pronounced extremists a number of publications published by Jehovah's Witnesses
for supposedly advocating the exclusivity of their religion. The court also ruled to
liquidate the registered community of Jehovah's Witnesses in Teginrog.
Alexander Squartzov is among the many local witnesses who have had charges brought against them.
In August of 2010 he became a victim of searches conducted simultaneously in 19 homes of the
worshippers. The rights of the worshippers have also been violated in that they have been forced
to sign a promise not to leave their towns of residence. Kirill Kravchenko, a local Jehovah's
Witness, is a musician and member of a chamber choir. He was charged in band from leaving town soon
after he got married. Nikolai Trotsyuk is a Jehovah's Witness elder. He is one of the main suspects in
the case. Nelly, all of his family members have been charged on the basis of their religion.
Alexander Goncherova, Nikolai's daughter and mother of nine-year-old Snowjana, is also a suspect in
the case. These events remind her of the Soviet past.
In the 1990s, Jehovah's Witnesses were exonerated as innocent victims of repression,
but now they are once again being persecuted on the basis of invented charges. The allegations
put forward against them in Teginrog are absolutely identical to those featured in another major
case of the last decade, the liquidation of the Moscow community of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Another consequence of the prosecution's actions was the confiscation of the local kingdom hall.
This is the first time that such wide-scale ideological persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses has been
launched in modern-day Russia. The worshipers still hope that the Russian state will protect the
rights of its citizens to the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and under international
law, including the European Convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.